>> Jason Lengstorf: So this is something
that you wanna be judicious about
because the reasons that solutions for
CSS modules in CSS and
JS were kinda created is because
one of the biggest challenges
of managing styles at scale is global
scope being confusing and hard to manage.
So, what we're gonna do is
some stuff that is kinda,
it's just like my opinion man, but
you can do this a lot of different ways.
So I'm gonna set this up where
we're gonna set everything on
the page to have box-sizing
of border-box and buckle and
cuz we're gonna write CSS for
like 20 minutes here.
We're gonna do a margin of 0 and this is
where my opinions really start to show.
We also have this wonderful tool that
I learned from Hayden Pickering,
it's called the lobotomized owl selector.
And so what this means is every sibling
selector is going to get this style,
and we're gonna give it a margin top of
1 rem, which is like the root font size.
And the reason that I like this as a
selector is that it just kinda normalizes
vertical spacing in a way that doesn't
require really elaborate resets.
We're not gonna use something
like normalize or the CSS reset.
We're just doing a little bit
of code to make this work.
Next, let's set up our HTML and body tags.
These we want to always
have a margin of zero,
even if body would be a sibling
element because there's a head.
We're gonna set a default color.
Let's make that, I don't know,
555 that seems okay.
We'll go with the font family.
And I'm gonna just use
the default font stack.
So I'm gonna do apple-system,
BlinkMacSystem, God, SystemFont.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Can I spell?
Segoe UI, then we'll do Roboto.
I never had to type this
out by hand before,
there's a lot, Arial, ans sans-serif.
And we're not gonna use any emoji,
so I'm gonna leave that part out.
And then we can do
the font-size of 18 pixels.
A line height of 1.4.
So these are just some
kind of really as straight
forward as I can make them defaults for
our page.
If you do this it's going to be
kind of okay just out of the gate.
The last thing that we need to do in
here is, I wanna make sure that so
Gatsby wraps everything in a div.
If we look at the code here.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Let's
get that out of the way.
>> Jason Lengstorf: We have this div id
gatsby, and then we have a no script tag.
And because there's a no script,
that means that this div gets
treated like a sibling element.
We don't want that to get extra sizing.
So, I'm wanna leave myself a note,
so that I know what I'm doing.
Remove margin for
main div that Gatsby mounts into,
and then I'm going to do a direct selector
to the div and set a margin top of 0.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And then we're gonna
set up just some really basic typography,
so that we don't have to think too hard
about any of that as we're styling
everything else.
So let's make all of our headings a darker
color, so we'll give in triple twos.
We'll give them a shoulder line height
which is just kinda nice to look at.
And then we're also going to
say that anything that comes
after a heading is going to
have a smaller margin top.
>> Jason Lengstorf: That just gives
us a little more visual grouping,
the heading is close to
the content next to it.
We also want any bolded text
to have that darker color.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And
finally, if we make a list,
we want that list to not have
a huge amount of top space.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Okay,
so we just typed a bunch.
This is not the only, I wish I could tell
you this is the only CSS we're gonna write
in this workshop, it's not.
We're gonna write so much CSS.
But this is the bulk of, kind of,
the configuration level stuff.
So the next thing that we're gonna do,
is we've got this kinda global styles.
And if I just collapse
this out of the way,
then I can see we're not actually
doing anything with this yet.
So we're gonna wanna put in a header,
and we don't know what's
gonna go in there yet.
But we're also gonna set in a main.
And this main is going
to contain our children.
So with that, we can start,
I mean we're not done yet, but
we're gonna start working on this.
We're gonna export this
layout as a default.
And then, once that's done,
I'm going to come over into my index,
I'm going to import the layout
>> Jason Lengstorf: From this folder.
And then instead of using this fragment,
I'm just gonna use a layout.
How does it work?
Is it an Option-Click to give
myself multiple cursors?
So once I've added this layout, and
I go to the homepage,
>> Jason Lengstorf: I gotta,
I forgot to restart the server so
npm run develop.
>> Jason Lengstorf: All right, so
we're back up at 8000 so I can refresh.
Hey, we've got ourselves
some global styles.
Now I've only applied this to the homepage
so when I go to the About page,
you'll notice it's not done.
So let's also apply
this to our About page.
And I can just copy this directly over.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And then again,
we're gonna add a layout.
And now when I click between the two.
Let's look at okay.
I mean it's still not great.
We got to solve some problems like
where we don't have a header and
we're also this text is all kind
of jammed up against the side.
So let's let's address the issue with,
>> Jason Lengstorf: The main section,
and we're gonna do this
using a different technique.
And I'm kinda showing a lot
of different techniques here.
You may not want to mix all of
them in your actual projects.
This is more just to kind
of show off how it works.
Go ahead.
>> Speaker 2: So
I see in the CSS we wrote,
we're using a lot of element selectors
instead of class id selectors,
just for my own confirmation is that kind
of an idiomatic practice to emotion and
sound components as I just want to get
this out of the way really quickly.
>> Jason Lengstorf: To be completely
honest, this is such a subjective thing.
My take on it is that typography
is typically globally set and
individually overridden, but
I also come from write all your CSS
by hand and really use the cascade.
A lot of people don't like that and so
they very tightly encapsulate
their typography styles.
And everything kinda gets
set by config tokens.
There's not a right or
a wrong way to do this.
The only that really matters,
when you're dealing with styles in an app,
is that the team understands what
decisions have been made and
agrees to enforce them the same way.
So as long as everybody's
on the same page,
you can build,
a good style system for your app.
Where it will start to fall apart
is if there are a lot of rules
that you just have to know it gets tricky.
I think that's were a lot of
contention around CSS comes in,
is how much of it is stuff you just
have to intuitively understand?
Or stuff that you have to learn by
sloughing through the code base.
How much of the code base do you need
to know to be able to write styles?
That varies from team to team and
is probably a debate that,
well it is a debate that has been
raging on Twitter for years.
[LAUGH] So yeah we probably won't
solve that today but my preference is,
set some defaults on the elements
because it's easy to override element
styles with classes or other selectors.
And that way things are kind of set here,
and
then you override them
individually as you go.
>> Jason Lengstorf: On the main,
we want to keep it off of the sides.
So what I'm gonna do is,
let's say I give it a margin
of 2 rem at the top.
We'll make it an auto and
then we'll give it 4 rem at the bottom so
there's a little breathing room.
I'm going to give it a max width of 90,
what is this?
Viewport width I think is
what that VW stands for.
And then I'm going to set
a width of 550 pixels.
And by setting a max width of 90 VW,
that means that 5% of
the viewport width is gonna
show up to the left and right.
So if I inspect this now,
>> Jason Lengstorf: My
main is set with some extra sizes.
And as this expands,
we can see those viewport widths
are changing a little bit and
once we hit a certain size,
it just sticks at a max width of 550.
And so this is a way for
us to just say that's the biggest
we want this thing to get is 550.
But the smallest we ever want
it to be is 90% of the width so
that it has some breathing room.